# 2021-08-16 - Day 04
- Window of Opertunity
  - 96 => 112 => 128 => 144 => 160 pixel / units
  - 216 max? (1/3 ish) => 192 => 168 => 144 => 120? nope
  - 256 => 320, 16px increments!

## Deck generation / Encounters
- Stars: Research + Hazard
- Planets: Research + Mining
- Pirates: Combat
- Asteroids: Mining
- Stations: Upgrades + Income
- Space beast: Research + Combat

- Basically I have categories of:
  - Research (gain bytes)
  - Mining (gain materials)
  - Hazard (player takes damage)
  - Combat (player does damage)
  - Shop
- Can I come up with a Research + Combat?
- Can I come up with a Combat + Mining?
- Are there other categories I want?
- Research  = Credits once you find a station
- Combat    = Credits?
- Mining    = Materials
- Shop      = Turn in research for credits & change to upgrade
- Hazards   = Threat to player hull and shields

- Space creature? Combat and research (you get both, but you could shield up to scan it)
- Mining + Combat??? 

- What data do I need to make these?
  - type
  - hp
  - hazard size
  - bounty
  - researchable
  - richness of mining??? maybe not?

- small run is 13-15, low and medium threats
- medium run is 26-30, low, medium and high threats
- long run is 39-45, low, medium and high threats
- uncharted is 15-45, always high threat
- special / gameover is 50 long, high threat

threat level is a multiplier on all rewards
- low = 1.0, least combat
- medium = 1.5, fair amount of combat
- high = 2.0, most combat

- hp on enemies goes 3, 4, 5?
do I want a score system?

## end game?
- once the qdrive is fully upgraded a special contract will appear, completing this will end the game
- the game will track how many runs were done, how many deaths, maybe a score based on gathered resources?
- each run is a penality amount
- each death is a penality amount
- resources are worth positive values
- best score is the fewest number of runs and deaths to get to max level and beat the special contract
- short x 100, medium x200, long x300, uncharted x 150