# 2021-08-13 - Day 1
THEME: SPACE
- 4x game? 4x card game?
  - Explore means players send scouts across a map to reveal surrounding territories.
  - Expand means players claim new territory by creating new settlements, or sometimes by extending the influence of existing settlements.
  - Exploit means players gather and use resources in areas they control, and improve the efficiency of that usage.
  - Exterminate means attacking and eliminating rival players. Since in some games all territory is eventually claimed, eliminating a rival's presence may be the only way to achieve further expansion.

  - legendary style event + deck buidler?
  - events + dice?
    - spend dice each turn on available actions
      - power
      - mining
      - combat
  - power allocation mechanic?
  - 4x idle / incremental game?
    - event queue
    - window of opertunity to act on events?
    - ongoing earnings based on stat/power allocation
    - go from 1 small ship, to larger ships, to fleet / drones
    - prestige from worm holes + worm hole tech
      - need reason to prestige
      - some sort of impassable wall to progress
      - lose all money, but what comes back? the ship? "knowledge"?
    - power level of system need to scale
    - is there an end to the game or just a 'end game' loop?
      - a 4x idle game wouldn't really end

    - adjust engine power to adjust speed
    - upgrade systems to up capacity, allocate power from a pool (ala FTL) to use that power
    - generator upgrades are maybe the prestige goal?
    - keep new generator limit, lose all credits, materials, and upgrades

    - keep timeline tight?
      - first prestige within 2 minutes of game start?
      - each prestige takes twice as long roughly? (2, 4(6), 8(14), 16(30), 32(62), 64(126), 128(254))
        - first 5 pretiges would be about an hour of gameplay?
        - do this by doubling the cost of generator upgrades each time?
        - need to accumulate some sort of resource to use for generator? (time? usage based?)
    - when can player upgrade systems?
      - what is the cost?
        - credits? raw materials? both?
      - need a station in the window of opertunity
      - pause game while shop is open?

    - shields recharge over time
      - slow ship to allow time before combat
    
    - EVENTS
      - Asteroids
        - Raw
      - Pirates
        - Credits
      - Planets
        - Research
        - Raw
      - Stars
        - Research
      
    - How to make money
      - Beat pirates
        - Bounty: $0000
      - Complete systems
        - Contract: $0000
      - Research
        - Scan planets to earn research
        - Scan stars to earn research
          - research gets converted to credits at stations
    
    - How to get materials
      - Mine asteroids
      - Mine Planets
  
    - death just resets back to start of current timeline?

    - game loop
      - load file / new file
      - select contract for size (start with a menu)
      - main game loop
        - encounters scroll down the timeline
        - allocate power (need UI and button)
        - buy upgrades at stations
        - accumulate resources
        - survive
      - cash out
      - start over
      OR
      - activate the QDrive to prestige

  - explore?
    - rewards based on system type
      - small - least money, good way to cash in / get access to a station
      - medium - moderate money, good length journey (2x small)
      - large - large contract fee, long time till payout, but good for long play sessions (3x small)
      - uncharted - most money, will randomly sized (can be small even), no access to stations / upgrades

  - expand?

  - exploit?
    - mining asteroids

  - exterminate?
    - combat encounters



- space themed breeding / raising game?
  - Combinatorics, proc-gen?, genetic algorithms

- space filling puzzle game?
  - Warehouse puzzle?
  - Room filling puzzle?

# Doing a 4x incremental game!
- try to keep scope reasonable
- Events
  - Asteroids (Mining + Hazard)
  - Pirates (Combat)
  - Stations (Shopping + Turn in)
  - Planets (Research + Mining)
  - Moons (Research + Mining)
  - Stars (Research + Hazard)
  - Other random text events??

- Resources
  - Raw Materials
  - Credits
  - Research data (bytes)
  - Q-power (time or distance)

- UI Elements
  - Power tank
  - Power distro + and -
  - timeline
  - player ship flying animation

- Ship systems
  - Engines (Speed of timeline scroll) (1-4)
  - Shields (Combat and hazards, increases max shielding) (1-4)
  - Weapons (Combat, shots per seconds) (1-4)
  - Scanners (Research, increases bytes per seconds) (1-4)
  - Mining lasers (Raw Materials per seconds) (1-4)

  - Hull (No power needs, but upgrades 1-4)
  - QDrive (Provides power, goes from level 0 to 5)
    - Starts at 3 power, 2 each prestige, maxes at 13
    - this will allow the player to fully power 3 systems with 1 left over energy at all times

- Station options
  - Repairs
  - Upgrades
    - Systems
    - Hull

R S W S M
E H E C I
A I A A N
C E P N N
T L O N E
O D N E R
R S S R S

- Power progress
  - 3, add 2 each prestige? up to 13? 5 total prestiges?

- base hull of... ?

- Difficulty escalates over time / distance
  - Goes from lower overlap and weak enemies to more overlap and harder enemies

- Distance System
  - Event spawn near their distance
  - Events in the window of oppertunity are acted
  - Player's engine level increase the unit / time moved
  - Need a min spacing for events
  - Need a distance to pixel ratio to help the timeline math